 Physical Geology, First University of Saskatchewan Edition is used under a CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 International License
                         Read this book online at http://openpress.usask.ca/physicalgeology/


              Chapter 1. Introduction to Geology java
        Adapted by Karla Panchuk, University of Saskatchewan from Physical Geology by Steven Earle


Sasha 2021

              Figure 1.1 Badlands in southern Saskatchewan. Erosion has exposed layers of rock
              going back more than 65 million years. Source: Karla Panchuk (2017) CC BY-SA 4.0


Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, completing the exercises within it, and answering the Review Questions at the
end, you should be able to:

    •      Explain what geology is, and why we study Earth.
    •      Describe the kinds of work that geologists do.
    •      Explain what is meant by geological time.
    •      Explain how the principle of uniformitarianism allows us to translate observations about Earth
           today into knowledge about how Earth worked in the past.
    •      Summarize the main idea behind the theory plate tectonics.

1.1 What Is Geology?
Geologists study Earth — its interior and its exterior surface, the rocks and other materials around us, and
the processes that formed those materials. They study the changes that have occurred over the vast time-
span of Earth’s history, and changes that might take place in the near future.

Geology is a science, meaning that geological questions are investigated with deductive reasoning and
scientific methodology. Geology is arguably the most interdisciplinary of all of the sciences because
geologists must understand and apply other sciences, including physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics,
astronomy, and more.




Chapter 1. Introduction to Geology                                                                              1
An aspect of geology that is unlike most of the other sciences is the role played by time — deep time —
billions of years of it. When geologists study the evidence around them, they are often observing the results
of are observing the results of events that took place thousands, millions, and even billions of years in the

past, and which may still be ongoing. Many geological processes happen at incredibly slow rates —
millimetres per year to centimetres per year — but because of the amount of time available, tiny changes
can result in expansive oceans forming, or entire mountain ranges being worn away.

