STRANDS AND STANDARDS
INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY

java

2021

Course Description
The Intro to IT course is for students interested in pursuing a career in the field of Information
Technology. Students will be introduced to the different aspects of information technology to
determine where their interests. Students will complete assignments and projects in IT careers,
digital media, hardware & operating systems, communications & networks, software
development, databases, and new & emerging technologies.
 Intended Grade Level                              9-12
 Units of Credit                                   0.5
 Core Code                                         35.02.00.00.005
 Concurrent Enrollment Core Code                   35.02.00.13.005
 Prerequisite                                      Digital Literacy
 Skill Certification Test Number                   801
 Test Weight                                       0.5
 License Type                                      CTE and/or Secondary Education 6-12
 Required Endorsement(s)
 Endorsement 1                                     Introduction to Information Technology, or
 Endorsement 2                                     A+ (Computer Repair/Maintenance)

Sasha

           " Learning that works for Utah
                                                                           ADA Compliant: July 2018
                                          INTRODUCTION TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

STRAND 1
Introduction to Information Technology-Students will develop an understanding of current
issues related to Information Technology.
Standard 1
Students are introduced to the importance of ethics and ethical behavior.
      • Understand and follow an Acceptable Use Policy (AUP).
      • Explain the difference between legal and ethical.
      • Explain how some online behaviors can be harmful personally and to a business.
           (Pornography, social networking, gaming, pirating software, illegal hacking, etc.)
      • Follow copyright and fair use guidelines.
Standard 2
Understand the importance of information privacy and security.
      • Viruses, spoofing, phishing, cookies, spam, etc.
      • Explain kinds of anti-virus software and how they work.

Standard 3
Identify the skills needed by employers to be an effective and valued employee.
        • List employable skills: passion, teamwork, communication, collaboration, friendly,
            asks questions, meets deadlines, self-motivated, desire to learn new things, creative,
            problem solver, basic office suite skills, etc.
        • Model employable skills in the classroom.
Standard 4
Understand the levels of education needed to be successful in a specific area of Information
Technology.
      • Understand IT industry certifications, education, boot camps, and work experience.
      • Explain how certifications, education, boot camps, and work experience can affect
          employability.
Standard 5
Participate in an IT interest survey.
        • Identify different areas and careers in IT.
        • Identify areas of strength and weakness based on an IT interest survey.
Standard 6
Identify the organizational structure of a business and the role that Information Technology
plays in the success of business.
        • Identify different IT careers in business (CEO, CIO, System Analysts, tech support,
            etc.)


